README.md, before:

# Docker - Apache with Let's Encrypt

This is a debian-based image which runs an apache and get's it SSL-certificates automatically from Let's Encrypt. It also contains [fail2ban](http://www.fail2ban.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page) but it's not configured!

## Instructions

### Prepare your apache-config
There are some things you have to care about in your apache-config if you want to use it with certbot:

* for every domain given in `DOMAINS` there must be a apache-vhost which uses this domain as `ServerName` or `ServerAlias`. Else certbot won't get a certificate for this domain.
* certbot does not support multiple vhosts in a config-file yet. If an config-file has more than a single vhost it will be ignored by certbot.

### Run it
For an easy test-startup you just have to:

```
$ docker run -d --name apache-ssl birgerk/apache-letsencrypt
```

Now you have locally an apache running, which get's it SSL-certificates from Let's Encrypt.

The image will get letsencrypt-certificates on first boot. A cron-job renews the existing certificates automatically, so you don't have to care about it.

If you want to expand your certificate and you can remove the existing docker-container and start new one with the updated `DOMAINS`-list. If you don't want to recreate the container you can execute the following commands:

```
$ $UPDATED_DOMAINS="example.org,more.example.org"
$ docker exec -it apache-ssl /run_letsencrypt.sh --domains $UPDATED_DOMAINS
```


### Configuring docker-container
It's possible to configure the docker-container by setting the following environment-variables at container-startup:

* `DOMAINS`, configures which for which domains a SSL-certificate shall be requested from Let's Encrypt, default is `""`. Must be given as comma-seperated list, f.e.: `"example.com,my-internet.org,more.example.com"`.
* `WEBMASTER_MAIL`, Let's Encrypt needs a mail-address from the webmaster of the requested domain. You have to set it, otherwise Let's Encrypt won't give the certificates. Default is `""`. Must be given as simple mail-address, f.e.: `"webmaster@example.com"`.
* `STAGING`, if set with a not-null string use Let's Encrypt Staging environment to avoid rate limits during development.

Commit message:

start fail2ban on startup

README.md, after:

# Docker - Apache with Let's Encrypt

This is a debian-based image which runs an apache and get's it SSL-certificates automatically from Let's Encrypt. It also contains [fail2ban](http://www.fail2ban.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page) but it's not configured!

## Instructions

### Prepare your apache-config
There are some things you have to care about in your apache-config if you want to use it with certbot:

* for every domain given in `DOMAINS` there must be a apache-vhost which uses this domain as `ServerName` or `ServerAlias`. Else certbot won't get a certificate for this domain.
* certbot does not support multiple vhosts in a config-file yet. If an config-file has more than a single vhost it will be ignored by certbot.

### Run it
For an easy test-startup you just have to:

```
$ docker run -d --name apache-ssl birgerk/apache-letsencrypt
```

Now you have locally an apache running, which get's it SSL-certificates from Let's Encrypt.

The image will get letsencrypt-certificates on first boot. A cron-job renews the existing certificates automatically, so you don't have to care about it.

If you want to expand your certificate and you can remove the existing docker-container and start new one with the updated `DOMAINS`-list. If you don't want to recreate the container you can execute the following commands:

```
$ $UPDATED_DOMAINS="example.org,more.example.org"
$ docker exec -it apache-ssl /run_letsencrypt.sh --domains $UPDATED_DOMAINS
```

If you want to use fail2ban, you have to give this container on startup some more capabilities:

```
$ docker run -d --name apache-ssl --cap-add=NET_ADMIN birgerk/apache-letsencrypt
```
If you don't give this capabilities, the fail2ban-service will print some errorson startup. But your apache will work.
You have to configure fail2ban on yourself if you want to use it!

### Configuring docker-container
It's possible to configure the docker-container by setting the following environment-variables at container-startup:

* `DOMAINS`, configures which for which domains a SSL-certificate shall be requested from Let's Encrypt, default is `""`. Must be given as comma-seperated list, f.e.: `"example.com,my-internet.org,more.example.com"`.
* `WEBMASTER_MAIL`, Let's Encrypt needs a mail-address from the webmaster of the requested domain. You have to set it, otherwise Let's Encrypt won't give the certificates. Default is `""`. Must be given as simple mail-address, f.e.: `"webmaster@example.com"`.
* `STAGING`, if set with a not-null string use Let's Encrypt Staging environment to avoid rate limits during development.
